Nay, never play the brave man, else when you go back home, your own mother
won't know you. But, dear friends and allies, first let us lay our burdens down;
then, citizens all, hear what I have to say. I have useful counsel to give our
city, which deserves it well at my hands for the brilliant distinctions it has
lavished on my girlhood. At seven years of age, I was bearer of the sacred
vessels; at ten, I pounded barley for the altar of Athené; next, clad in a robe
of yellow silk, I was little bear to Artemis at the Brauronia; presently, grown
a tall, handsome maiden, they put a necklace of dried figs about my neck, and I
was Basket-Bearer. So surely I am bound to give my best advice to Athens. What
matters that I was born a woman, if I can cure your misfortunes? I pay my share
of tolls and taxes, by giving men to the State. But you, you miserable
greybeards, you contribute nothing to the public charges; on the contrary, you
have wasted the treasure of our forefathers, as it was called, the treasure
amassed in the days of the Persian Wars. You pay nothing at all in return; and
into the bargain you endanger our lives and liberties by your mistakes. Have
you one word to say for yourselves? . . . Ah! don't irritate me, you there, or
I'll lay my slipper across your jaws; and it's pretty heavy. By the blessed
goddesses, if you anger me, I will let loose the beast of my evil passions, and
a very hailstorm of blows will set you yelling for help. Come, dames, off
tunics, and quick's the word; women must scent the savour of women in the
throes of passion. . . . Now just you dare to measure strength with me, old
greybeard, and I warrant you you'll never eat garlic or black beans more. No,
not a word! My anger is at a boiling point, and I'll do with you what the
beetle did with the eagle's eggs. I laugh at your threats, so long as I have on
my side Lampita here, and the noble Theban, my dear Ismenia. . . . Pass decree
on decree, you can do us no hurt, you wretch abhorred of all your fellows. Why,
only yesterday, on occasion of the feast of Hecaté, I asked my neighbors of
Bœotia for one of their daughters for whom my girls have a lively liking--a
fine, fat eel to wit; and if they did not refuse, all along of your silly
decrees! We shall never cease to suffer the like, till someone gives you a neat
trip-up and breaks your neck for you!